P1. Suppose the information content of a packet is the bit pattern 1110 0110 1001
1101 and an even parity scheme is being used. What would the value of the
field containing the parity bits be for the case of a two-dimensional parity
scheme? Your answer should be such that a minimum-length checksum field
is used.

P2. Show (give an example other than the one in Figure 5.5) that two-dimensional
parity checks can correct and detect a single bit error. Show (give an example
of) a double-bit error that can be detected but not corrected.


P5. Consider the 7-bit generator, G=10011, and suppose that D has the value
1010101010. What is the value of R?

P6. Consider the previous problem, but suppose that D has the value
a. 1001010101.
b. 0101101010.
c. 1010100000.

P8. In Section 5.3, we provided an outline of the derivation of the efficiency of
slotted ALOHA. In this problem we’ll complete the derivation.
a. Recall that when there are N active nodes, the efficiency of slotted ALOHA
is Np(1 – p) N–1 . Find the value of p that maximizes this expression.
b. Using the value of p found in (a), find the efficiency of slotted ALOHA by
letting N approach infinity. Hint: (1 – 1/N) N approaches 1/e as N
approaches infinity.

P14. Consider three LANs interconnected by two routers, as shown in Figure 5.33.
a. Assign IP addresses to all of the interfaces. For Subnet 1 use addresses of
the form 192.168.1.xxx; for Subnet 2 uses addresses of the form
192.168.2.xxx; and for Subnet 3 use addresses of the form 192.168.3.xxx.
b. Assign MAC addresses to all of the adapters.
c. Consider sending an IP datagram from Host E to Host B. Suppose all of
the ARP tables are up to date. Enumerate all the steps, as done for the
single-router example in Section 5.4.1.
d. Repeat (c), now assuming that the ARP table in the sending host is empty
(and the other tables are up to date).


P15. Consider Figure 5.33. Now we replace the router between subnets 1 and 2
with a switch S1, and label the router between subnets 2 and 3 as R1.
a. Consider sending an IP datagram from Host E to Host F. Will Host E ask
router R1 to help forward the datagram? Why? In the Ethernet frame con-
taining the IP datagram, what are the source and destination IP and MAC
addresses?
b. Suppose E would like to send an IP datagram to B, and assume that E’s
ARP cache does not contain B’s MAC address. Will E perform an ARP
query to find B’s MAC address? Why? In the Ethernet frame (containing
the IP datagram destined to B) that is delivered to router R1, what are the
source and destination IP and MAC addresses?
c. Suppose Host A would like to send an IP datagram to Host B, and neither A’s
ARP cache contains B’s MAC address nor does B’s ARP cache contain A’s
MAC address. Further suppose that the switch S1’s forwarding table contains
entries for Host B and router R1 only. Thus, A will broadcast an ARP request
message. What actions will switch S1 perform once it receives the ARP
request message? Will router R1 also receive this ARP request message? If so,
will R1 forward the message to Subnet 3? Once Host B receives this ARP
request message, it will send back to Host A an ARP response message. But
will it send an ARP query message to ask for A’s MAC address? Why? What
will switch S1 do once it receives an ARP response message from Host B?

P19. Suppose nodes A and B are on the same 10 Mbps broadcast channel, and
the propagation delay between the two nodes is 245 bit times. Suppose A
and B send Ethernet frames at the same time, the frames collide, and then
A and B choose different values of K in the CSMA/CD algorithm. AssumingPROBLEMS
no other nodes are active, can the retransmissions from A and B collide? For
our purposes, it suffices to work out the following example. Suppose A and B
begin transmission at t = 0 bit times. They both detect collisions at t = 245 bit
times. Suppose K A = 0 and K B = 1. At what time does B schedule its retrans-
mission? At what time does A begin transmission? (Note: The nodes must wait
for an idle channel after returning to Step 2—see protocol.) At what time does
A’s signal reach B? Does B refrain from transmitting at its scheduled time?

P27. In this problem, we explore the use of small packets for Voice-over-IP appli-
cations. One of the drawbacks of a small packet size is that a large fraction of
link bandwidth is consumed by overhead bytes. To this end, suppose that the
packet consists of P bytes and 5 bytes of header.
a. Consider sending a digitally encoded voice source directly. Suppose the
source is encoded at a constant rate of 128 kbps. Assume each packet is
entirely filled before the source sends the packet into the network. The
time required to fill a packet is the packetization delay. In terms of L,
determine the packetization delay in milliseconds.
b. Packetization delays greater than 20 msec can cause a noticeable and
unpleasant echo. Determine the packetization delay for L = 1,500 bytes
(roughly corresponding to a maximum-sized Ethernet packet) and for
L = 50 (corresponding to an ATM packet).
c. Calculate the store-and-forward delay at a single switch for a link rate of
R = 622 Mbps for L = 1,500 bytes, and for L = 50 bytes.
d. Comment on the advantages of using a small packet size.


